Not too many years later, after the Frank Act's experiment, other types of phenomena confirmed energy
quantization in nature.
One of these in 1923 was the so-called quantum scattering documented by the American physicist Arthur
Compton.
Compton also started from the assumption that electromagnetic waves could be considered as a flux of
light particles.
That is, photons.
In fact, if this were true, it would then be possible to calculate precisely the scattering process
between a single photon and, say, an electron, just like it is possible to describe the elastics
collision between two billiard balls using the simple laws of energy and momentum conservation of classical
physics.
Now, by using these conservation laws, Compton wrote down a concise and useful formula which relates
the wavelength lamda of an incoming high energy gamma ray photon that is a photon with a wavelength
sufficiently small to be comparable to the size of an electron before the scattering with the electron
itself and the wavelength, the prime of the scattered photon, according to a scattering angle theta.
The wavelength to the prime of the shattered photon must be larger than that of the incoming one, since
it loses some of its energy because the higher the energy of a photon, the smaller its wavelength will
be.
Or vice versa, the lower the energy of a photon, the larger the wavelength will be higher.
The color of the incoming photon is depicted in blue.
While that of the outgoing one is red for obviously for illustration purposes only, of course, gamma
rays are well beyond of any visible light to the human eye.
In fact, remember that the energy of a photon is given by Planck's formula.
Equal age times, new with new, the frequency and of course, age, the Planck's constant, as you
certainly already know by now, the wave lambda, often electromagnetic wave is given instead by lambda
equal.
See over know with see the speed of light at is about 300000 kilometers per second.
The speed of light in volume, at least in media.
In a medium it is.
Less but smaller, but in vacuum, this is a constant, universal constant of the speed of light.
So the wavelength we associate with the photon must be inversely proportional to its energy as e equal
again, eight times no equal, eight times C over lambda.
At this point, you might become somewhat confused by the fact that we are talking about light particles,
which are supposed to be point like objects and yet continue to treat them and even depict them graphically
as waves having a specific wavelength.
Again, as we have already seen with the photoelectric effect effect, nature seems to play with this
ambiguity.
It seems as if light or any electromagnetic energy traveling through space can be thought of as a wave.
And since matter absorbs and emits it in form of discrete energy quanta.
Also, as a particle, we shall clarify the deeper meaning of this duality in the coming sections.
For now, please accept this fact on face, so to speak, and follow the line of reasoning and the phenomenon
of phenomenology of these historical experiments, which became the foundation of all that will be explained
later.
So putting all this together in 1923, Compton was able to predict, therefore, a very strict relation
between the difference in wavelength, between the incoming and scattered photon independence of its
scattering angle theta, which is the wavelength shift Delta Lambda, that radiation suffers when it
is scattered by matter.
Compton's formula was Delta Lambda equal.
That lambda prime means minus lambda equal some constant lambda zero times one minus the cosine function
of the scattering angle theta where this lambda zero here is given by H over the mass of the electron
times the speed of light C..
And this is a constant which is called the Compton Wavelength.
Lambda Zero is called the Compton Wavelength, which for the electron is about two point four times
minus 12 meters.
So a very, very small, very small length.
Notice that if.
T to our data is zero, we have no difference, which means that the photon goes straight through without
scattering and frequency change.
That is here because I interviewed zero.
It is one one minus one zero zero times that zero is again zero, so dealt there is zero.
And which makes it clear that by going straight along, it does not.
There is no collision, so to speak.
Whereas for Teater, equal 180 degrees, which means for Becs, scattering the wavelength increases
by twice the quantum wavelength where twice, two times LAMDA zero because.
The cosine of 180 degrees is minus one, one minus minus one is two, then we have two times that zero,
which is the difference in wavelength that a photon suffers if it is scattered by an electron.
The possibility to know precisely this kind of relations, the relation between the input and output
wavelengths or also therefore energies of the particles and their respective scattering angle was verified
experimentally.
And it turned out that Compton's predictions are followed.
Precisely.
This was a nice historic example of the triumph of theoretical physics confirmed by later by experimental
verification and how in the history of science, sometimes the first comes them the math, the mathematics,
the calculation, and then comes the verification in the lab, even though sometimes it goes the other
way around.
Compton's scattering is also an atomic setting process.
You can see here an illustration of this process.
This suggests that also the also the explanation of how photons can ionized ionized atoms to ionize
an atom means that a photon extracts an electron from an atoms outer orbit shell around its nucleus.
A light particle with sufficient sufficiently high frequency or therefore energy and momentum can be
absorbed by one of the electrons so that the electrons acquires a certain amount of kinetic energy and
can eventually be removed by overcoming the atomic forces potential that kept it bound to the nucleus.
A gamma ray photon, however, can be so penetrating that it can ionize if the inner electron shells
and partially or completely transfer its electrons electromagnetic energy to the electron, which acquires
the gamma rays, momentum and kinetic energy, and which for this reason is also also called photo electron,
like in the photoelectric effect.
Notice, however, that the photoelectric effect and the CONTEN effect are two very different physical
physical processes.
The former extracts the electrons from a crystal metal, atomic metal, a metal lattice.
The letter effect that Compton is a deep scattering process process that can kick out, so to speak,
the electrons which are contained in the inner shells of the atoms itself.
A single high energy photon can also be scattered by several atoms and will lose collision after collision,
its energy, a high energy small wavelength or if you prefer, high frequency photon can be become via
multiple strings, whereby it loses a bit of its energy in each collision.
A low energy, large wavelength, low frequency photon.
This is an effect that plays an important role in the center of the sun, in the sanskar, which has
a temperature of about 60 million of degrees.
There is a huge amount of gamma radiation.
It takes, however, several million of years of scattering processes until the photons produced inside
the sun reach the surface where they will have lost most of their energy, being sought to be downgraded
to the photons that we know as visible light.
In fact, the light we observe nowadays coming from the sun's surface was once an intense radiation
form of gamma photon in the interior of the sun.
What makes Compton's scattering so important and interesting also for our consideration here is that
all this seems to suggest again that we can equally well consider electromagnetic waves no longer as
waves at all.
But think of light particles of photons like tiny billiard balls kicking around other particles.
If we were to stick to the classical idea that light is made of waves, we should observe a scattering
of concentric waves by the electron.
Think of our weight or waterways scattered by an object.
So this cannot be a we in if we conceive only of waves which are scattered by something.
And again, think of scattered waterways.
You don't see particles kicked around here and there.
If you see an outgoing concentric, uh.
Stream of waves, no contain scattering instead indicates that the application of the conservation laws
of classical physics, which determines the scattering between classical particles, holds also with
photons.
There is therefore at this point no longer any reason to reject a particle picture in quantum mechanics
instead of the wave picture.